
Introduction

This code book describes the variables, the data, and transformations performed to clean up data generated from experiments carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years where each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING UPSTAIRS, WALKING DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) while wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. The samrtphone using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope was used to capture the raw data (3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz) generated in the experiments. The obtained dataset is randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data. A full description is available at the site where the data was obtained:



Raw Data

The raw data was given to us in a zip file

Description

The dataset includes the following files (as described in 'README.txt' included in the dataset):

'README.txt': Gives the description of the files and data available in the dataset
'features_info.txt': Shows variables information used on the features variable
'features.txt': Shows a list of all features.
'activity_labels.txt': Links the class labels with their activity name.
'train/X_train.txt': Training set.
'train/y_train.txt': Training labels.
'test/X_test.txt': Test set.
'test/y_test.txt': Test labels.

Cleaning the raw data was done using through  run_analysis.R in this repository

The script does the following:

Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set using:

rbind()

Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement using:
grep()

Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set using:
read.table()

Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names using:
names()

Creates a second, independent tidy data 

aggregate()
write.table()

The scripts will display the tidy set.





















